docs: Provide Docs Feedback & Fix Markdown and Metadata for Consistency (#213)
open-sauced/docs: docs/contributing/technical/setup-repo-with-git.md

---
id: setup-repo-with-git
title: 'Setting Up a Repository with Git and GitHub'
sidebar_label: Setting Up a Repository with Git and GitHub
keywords:
  - setting up a repository with Git and GitHub
---

## Using the GitHub CLI

### How to Install the GitHub CLI

The [GitHub CLI](https://cli.github.com/) allows you to fork repositories, create issues, pull requests, and more from the command line.

Follow these [instructions to install GitHub CLI](https://github.com/cli/cli#installation) on Mac, Windows, or Linux.

### How to Authenticate with the GitHub CLI

From the terminal, you will need to authenticate with the GitHub CLI. You can do this by running the following command:

```shell
gh auth login
```

Then, follow the prompts to authenticate with the GitHub CLI.

### How to Fork and Clone a Repository with the GitHub CLI

A fork is a remote copy of a repository, allowing you to experiment freely with changes without affecting the original project.

A clone is a local copy of a repository that includes all the files, branches and commits.

To fork and clone a repository with the GitHub CLI, run the following command:

```shell
gh repo fork open-sauced/<REPO_NAME>
```

> The GitHub CLI will fork the project in your GitHub account and will ask you if you want to clone the repository on your local machine.

Author: I'm not familiar with GitHub CLI and need confirmation on this. Most of resources I got is cloning a repo with [`gh repo clone`](https://cli.github.com/manual/gh_repo_clone) command.

Does this line mean that after forking a repo with CLI, it will give a prompt that asking if we want to clone it as well? 

```suggestion
The GitHub CLI will fork the project in your GitHub account and will give you a prompt asking if you want to clone the repository on your local machine.
```

upstream git@github.com:open-sauced/open-sauced.git (push)
```

### How to Add a Remote Repository

Adding a remote repository allows you to pull in changes from the original repository and keep your forked copy of the repository up to date.

To add a remote repository, run the following command:

```shell

> git remote add upstream git@github.com:open-sauced/open-sauced.git

Author: - I'm not sure and need confirmation about this command.
   From the [official GitHub CLI docs](https://cli.github.com/manual/gh_repo_set-default) in the "Examples" section, they use this command: ` git remote add newrepo https://github.com/owner/repo`.
- We might want to update the remote URL example here because the `open-sauced`  repo has been archived.
